I stayed there four years through this Manpower Incorporated and then business kind of fell off and the company had to reorganize a little bit and let some of the people go on account of poor business.
And I was let go at that time, but those four years I really enjoyed and I was ready to retire at that time.
So from 1926 till what year?
1970.
Two.
Oh, how marvelous.
How marvelous.
41, 40, 44 years.
With GE.
Oh, that is good.
Okay, let's see.
Back to A&M.
Did...
Did it make much difference then when you became a sophomore?
Was life different for a sophomore than a freshman?
Oh, yes.
I always lived in fear as a freshman, wondering what was going to happen next.
But like I mentioned before, there was a little bit of hazing going on, but not much in the band.
We were pretty busy with band practice or studies and things like that, and there wasn't too much time for having fun.
I mean, that kind of fun.
was the the band commander was that a key position then we had a there was a captain of the band which uh i guess it was just a good good leader somebody was a nice fellow that got along with everybody and i don't know how they appointed the the band commander captain
Unless the band director and maybe some of the senior class would suggest somebody for the next year.
And y'all called him band captain?
Yes.
Now, did y'all do as much hazing in the band as they did in the other?
I don't think we did.
In fact, I'm sure we didn't.
There was, I remember some hazing going on in the band.
I'd hear about some of it, but I never was bothered with it very much.
What little bit there was, it wasn't serious.
So as a sophomore, then you had somebody to come and clean your room up?
Oh, sure.
Sure I did.
I wasn't very tough on them.
I had a pretty good-sized paddle, but back behind it, I had a little 12-inch ruler.
And I'd make out like I was going to paddle him with that big paddle, but when I actually touched him, I had that little ruler I paddled him.
It stung a little, but that was all.
Were there some special teachers or advisors or counselors that you remember now with great joy and gratitude, some people that really helped you?
Well, one was mechanical engineering drawing that I liked very much, and I—the name was Mitchell, one of the professors.
I liked him very much.
The chemistry teacher I liked, Hodges, I believe was his name.
Mayo, Tommy Mayo, the English teacher.
Did you have a course from him?
Yes, just one course was all one year.
Can't remember his, the mechanical engineering
Teacher was very good.
I don't remember his name.
Then we had a shop foreman in mechanical engineering.
Well, that was woodworking.
Then we had a foundry shop, which I liked very much.
Civil engineering lab I liked very much.
The course itself was interesting.
I don't remember the teacher now.
As you look back, what were the key courses, the most important courses for you as an engineer in the future?
Well, all of them I took.
were interesting and I guess the electrical engineering was the one that really benefited me mostly and actually the only electrical engineering course that I had was this one course which was basic electricity as well as I recall now.
And along that line, which is off the main subject here, but in Tulsa I was called up by a company one day to come down to, they wanted to talk to me about some motors.
They designed fire escapes and cranes, these cranes that run up and down a building, and they wanted some motors for a crane.
I went down and interviewed them to talk with them, and lo and behold, there was a classmate of mine there, and I didn't know he was even in town.
And we went ahead and transacted our business, and I guess now they decided what they wanted.
But in the course of conversation,
The man that owned the place found out that—well, I guess he already knew that this man that worked for him was a graduate of A&M.
Then he found out I was a graduate, and after we had done our business, he said, well, now, you went to A&M, and I've got a fellow here that went to A&M.
He said, what course did you study?
And I said, mechanical engineering.
And he said, well, that beats all I ever heard.
He says, here you are, a mechanical engineer working for an electrical outfit, and I've got an agricultural engineer designing fire escapes and cranes.
It's too bad everybody can't go to that university.
That's the way he put it.
Now, I got off the track there.
Sorry.
Oh, no.
We're talking about faculty members and others that you remember with gratitude and pride.
Did you ever go to somebody that you were broke or had a problem that you needed somebody to help you solve?
I don't recall that I did.
I should have gone to that teacher of calculus, but for some reason I never did.
Did you by chance know young Tom Harrington, who was just... I knew of him, but I didn't know him very well.
Because he was new to the chemistry department.
Yeah, and he was very well thought of, too.
I remember that.
Is that right?
Mm-hmm.
Let's see.
Some other individuals.
Did you know Heine Weir?
Yes.
Well, not very well, but I knew him.
In the football team, I knew...
I wasn't a personal friend of mine, but the 12th man, Dr. King Gill.
King Gill, he was there.
I forget the name of the quarterback.
He was from Bay City my senior year.
I was then connected to New York.
And on January the 1st that year, there was a team composed mostly of Southwestern Conference football players.
The quarterback off A&M was there.
Evans, I think, was the end, was there.
Rags Matthews from SMU.
There was a guy from TCU.
They were all on the Western team.
The whole Eastern team was the All-American guys.
The Western team beat the All-American guys 21 to nothing, and the next morning, the New York Times said, gentlemen, in great big letters, about four or five exclamation points, they play football down in Texas.
I'll never forget it as long as I live.
It was mostly all Southwestern Conference guys.
Okay, a very important question.
Were you and the other students aware when it happened of the 12th man event?
I don't think at the time we realized the importance of it.
Now I wasn't at the game, but I was in school at the time.
Because King Gill did not play.
No.
But he was ready to play.
And I don't know for sure if he went down and put the uniform on or not.
I think he did.
I think he did, but I don't remember the details of that now.
Now, Coach Anderson, later Colonel Andy, his son told me that one of the reasons he thought that Coach Bible told...
Andy to go up and get Gill to come put his uniform on.
Back at Mississippi College, where DX Bible had coached before he came to A&M, when Anderson was his assistant coach, they were playing Mississippi State.
They were ahead the first time they'd ever been ahead of them.
They were ahead of them 13 to nothing.
Then in the second half, some of their players got hurt.
They only had a small team there, 15-16.
And for a few plays, they only had nine players on the field and 10.
And during that time, Mississippi State scored two touchdowns and beat them 14-13.
And he said that Coach Bible went over to Anderson and said, remember
Four years ago, what happened to us?
Go up there and get Gil to come put on his uniform.
Now, what I've wondered is, what did Coach Bible say to Weir?
Did he say, Weir, now you better do your best, or I'll put him in for you.
I have no idea.
Let's see.
Tom Harrington, did you know Mr. Zachary, H.B.
Zachary?
He was a classmate of Harrington's.
He was about my time.
I think he was before me, though.
I think he was class of 22 or 23, somewhere along now.
But I don't know that I knew about him until later on.
I think it was up when I was working for GEM in Oklahoma that I first heard of Zachary.
being in this big construction company.
All right, in your engineering courses, what were the new subjects that y'all were learning, the new technology?
I guess primarily was turbine generators, why they did what they did.
That and then
I was trying to think what they might have been in chemistry.
I don't recall anything particular then or in civil engineering either.
Well, as you got out into the real world with GE, had A&M pretty well kept y'all up to date?
Were y'all on the, were y'all?
Oh, yes.
You mean heard from the school?
Yes, sir.
I don't recall it got very much information except the whoever was heading up the former students association.
McQuillan?
McQuillan.
Yeah, McQuillan.
I kept in touch with him pretty well.
And also in terms of what y'all had been taught, had y'all been taught when you saw how well the other the students from the other colleges were prepared, was A&M
engineering preparation up to date?
As far as I know it was
I think I knew just about as much as any of the other college graduates that I associated with, and the work that I was doing at least, I got along about as well as they did.
Okay.
And I knew I was associated with a bunch of fellows from various universities over a lot of places.
Let's see, the YMCA building was there.
Yes.
What all happened at the Y?
I never—of course, the main thing that I went to the YMCA building for was Casey's.
But I don't remember that I ever participated in very much that was going on in the Y. Up on, I think, the fourth floor, there was a place up there, a third floor, kind of a meeting room.
And I guess my senior year I went up there more than any other time.
But as far as I was concerned, there wasn't too much activity going on that I participated in at the Y. Was there a swimming pool then?
No.
Pool hall, bowling alley?
I think it was...
Maybe a bowling alley with two lanes there, but I believe that's all and I don't I don't know that I ever played there now.
What did you do at Casey's?
Get a drink Coca-Cola or ice cream soda or a dish of ice cream.
That was mainly it.
Just a meeting place.
And did you earn all of your own money or did your... No, my family provided all of the tuition.
And so you didn't work while you were... No, no.
What about in the summers, what did you do?
I worked on that dry dock in Galveston, I remember, one summer, the first summer.
Or was that before I went there?
I'm not sure now which.
But after that, I did not do any work.
I just took a vacation in the summertime.
Was Guyon Hall built yet?
Guyon Hall, yes.
That was one of our main meeting places.
Spiesa Hall at O'Neill and Guyon Hall at the other end, a military walk.
And that's the most, that's the thing that I miss most about A&M, was a military walk.
And I'm sorry today that that's not there today for the Cadet Corps to march down.
I agree with you.
That was the main street.
Were there movies then in Guyon Hall?
Once in a while.
Paul Whiteman orchestra played there.
Really?
Yes.
You went to hear them?
I went to hear it.
What was your impression of their music?
Couldn't beat it.
Wonderful.
But now it wasn't a dance.
It was just a concert.
Just a concert, yes.
And what else was there at Guyon?
We used to go to church there.
I don't think that I can remember the whole cadet corps marching into Guyon Hall, but that was not required on Sunday.
I think he went to the individual churches around.
Did y'all have religious emphasis week then?
No, not that I recall.
Did you go to church on Sunday up there?
Not much.
Did you sleep late on Sunday?
Yep.
Let's see.
The basic attitude of Aggie students.
Were they liberal, conservative, lazy, diligent?
Describe a typical Aggie.
I think most of them were there to get an education.
I personally didn't see too much horseplay going on.
I think they all were there for a purpose and primarily get an education.
And there were country boys and city boys.
Country boys and city boys and
One thing they did do the freshman year, I don't know how they selected on who was going to do it, but there was a water tank there at the time, big water tank right there close to Milner Hall, and usually within the first week, the freshman class would get up there and paint out the previous year and put their class year number up there on that water tank, and the next night, just after taps, just after, well maybe it was after taps,
You'd hear a big sound, air out freshmen, and boy, the freshmen tore out, and where they went for the rest of the night, nobody knows.
But they were supposed to be gone because that new number was up there, and sometime you'd come back to it all.
And you knew it was going to happen.
You knew it was going to happen, but you didn't know when, but you often wondered.
Did you all have silver taps in those days?
We must have, but I don't recall that we had any particular significance to it.
The same way the bonfire, for the sake of me, I can't remember them having bonfire when I was there.
I can kind of remember there was something going on up at a little park close to what used to be the main entrance up there by the depot.
Just inside there to the right there was a little park
And there was once in a while some activity going on there, and I kind of think that that's where they had a little bonfire going on.
That's the only place that I can remember, but I just can't remember the bonfire much.
What about muster?
I don't recall they had muster, either.
Now, after I graduated, I went up to Tulsa, and I was up there 28 years.
And, of course, I was away from the college,
and I kind of lost contact with them until I moved back to Tulsa in 1955.
All right, now the band, you all played for football games.
Yes.
Did everybody stand up?
I don't think we did.
I can't remember that we did.
But we played for all the football and baseball games.
Did y'all march in?
Did the court march?
I don't think we did, like I do today, no.
Did you march at halftime?
No.
I say no.
We must have marched some.
Formed the T, I guess, was about all.
I was wondering, you formed the T?
Well, we must have formed the T, y'all.
But I know we didn't go through all these things they have today.
The, y'all did, did y'all march, did y'all play at final review?
Yes, yes, played final review for the cadet corps to go through twice.
Commencement, did the band...
I don't recall that we did anything special for commencement.
Do you think the band was held in high regard by the rest of the student body?
I think so, yes.
Were there singing cadets then?
I think they were just beginning to form at that time, but it wasn't the organization it became later.
Now one thing the band did while I was there, every year we went to Fort Worth for a week.
were doing the Fat Stock Show up there.
Oh.
And the band gave two concerts daily at that Fat Stock Show, and Amon G. Carter was responsible for it, and he got people, citizens there, to take members of the band and let them stay in their homes.
We stayed in people's homes, and one year, Tex Rickard,
who was a big promoter in New York at the time, was taking a rodeo to England.
And they, I understand, I didn't see it personally, but I understand that he got in touch with someone in College Station.
He wanted to take the Aggie band to England to be the official rodeo band in England.
But it came in about March, somewhere along there, and they decided they couldn't let the students go for that length of time and give them credit for their work.
So we didn't go.
Oh, that would have been fun.
That would have been fun.
Did you all go on core trips then?
Yes.
We've made maybe two a year.
Waco, Houston, and Austin.
Fort Worth or Dallas?
Yeah, we went Fort Worth and Dallas.
How did you get there?
I don't think we made, but about two core trips per year or something like that.
One south, one north.
Yeah, one on train.
Did Aggies hitchhike then?
Did what?
Did you hitchhike then?
Did we get what?
Did you hitchhike?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I never did, but a lot of the boys used to hitchhike from College Station to Houston or from there on north somewhere.
Did you ever hear of anybody having a bad experience hitchhiking?
No, but I remember one night, one of the fellows in the band was over at Bryan, and he...
caught the freight train one night coming back.
Uh-oh.
He was a sophomore my freshman year, a fellow named Woods, Soupy Woods, and when he got out to College Station he tried to get off and he slipped and fell under the train and cut both of his legs off and they found him dead the next morning.
Oh my, oh my.
I don't remember what year that was, either 22 or 23, somewhere along there, and we
Several of us, they got several of us to go with us at a funeral, to go to his funeral, which we did, several of the band members.
Soupy Woods was his name.
Was there a trolley, a streetcar then?
Tunerville trolley.
Where did you catch it?
Right there close to Milner Hall, just across the street from Milner Hall.
I guess the track came right on up to there and ended at that place.
Just about where the little kind of a temple is there, a church.
And it went to downtown?
Yes, downtown Bryan.
About how often did you go to downtown Bryan?
Maybe twice a month.
Well, my senior year may have been more than that.
We'd go there and listen to those records that I mentioned to the music store.
What else was there in downtown Bryan that seemed attractive?
Movie.
That was it.
Mostly just movies going to the movies.
Now, if you and your buddies wanted to have a good time on a Saturday night, what did y'all do?
Tell you, for the sake of me, I can't remember anything in particular except just have a bull session somewhere.
Could beer be, I know it was dry, but was there any bootlegger beer?
I never saw it or I never participated in it.
I've heard of some fellas having some bootleg there, as well as I recall now, but
There was nothing like that goes on these days after we had prohibition left us.
Did you know about any secret fraternities at A&M?
There were two secret fraternities there.
Well, tall beta pi.
That was a nice thing.
And I wanted to ask you when you were talking up there, you mentioned about fraternities and sororities, how many there were and what percentage of the class.
And I wondered then whether you were speaking about the
The social.
Well, was it social or was it the, what do you call the students?
Not the professional fraternity.
Not the professional.
Like I say, tall beta pi was there.
Then they had one called the TTs, which I think was a football team.
And then there was another one.
The swastika.
Swastika.
But I don't know.
I didn't know anything about either one of them.
I think the TTs was the football players or the athletes.
Now, the ones today are the social only.
You know, they live in the fraternity house, live in a sorority house.
I guess one reason I went to A&M was the fact that they didn't have fraternities there, and I knew that they had them at the University of Texas, and I guess I thought, well, I'm not socially inclined, maybe, and I don't know whether I want to go up there and get mixed up in that stuff or not.
And I think that had some importance with my going to A&M.
All right, in that inclusiveness, when you were there, were there any Jewish boys?
Yes, not very many, and there was some Mexican boys, too.
Some Catholics, some Protestants.
Yes.
How was everybody treated?
About the same, equally, as well as I recall.
No difference.
Rich boys, poor boys?
Rich boys, poor boys.
Couldn't tell the difference, see.
I remember the Mexican boys, their family came to visit them one day, and I happened to be down at the depot when they came, and those Mexican boys, they impressed me.
They were so nice and polite to their parents.
Seemed to me like more so, though, than the regular kids did.
Where did you get a date as an Aggie then?
Where did I get what?
A date.
How did an Aggie get a date?
Well, I didn't date any.
While I was there, I just, I don't know, I just had an occasion to try to date.
Now, my senior year, I knew some people there, particularly my senior when playing an Aggieland band.
We went over to Dean Bolton's house one night, five of us, and played a little, for a little party they were having.
We provided a little music there.
Then the Bryan girls, I never paid much attention to them until my senior year.
Then they started congregating around the band a little bit.
And there was Mary Jones and Katherine Henderson and two or three of them that I became acquainted with doing these dances.
They'd come over and talk with us as a band song.
And then my senior year I had
there was some dance, senior dance or an RV dance or something, and I invited a young lady from Galveston to come up
to the dance and she stayed in the home of one of these girls that I had become acquainted with.
And I have regretted all my life, I can't remember, of ever going back over to that house and thanking those people for letting that young lady stay there for that dance.
And it pops in my mind every once in a while, I think,
Unappreciated could a person be not to go back over there and thank them.
But that's the way it goes, I guess.
Did you go to any of the dances and dance?
I couldn't dance at that time, to be perfectly frank with you.
I didn't learn to dance until after I got to playing with this dance band and kind of got on to how it was done.
And from then on, after I finally caught on, I enjoyed it.
Let's see.
I'm looking at their steam tunnel.
Were there any steam tunnels on the campus then?
I've heard others talk about steam tunnels, and they could go from building to building in the steam tunnel.
Not that I know of.
There must have been, though, to get heat from around there.
But I didn't know about any tunnels there.
Let's see.
Did you know Pinky Downs?
I knew of him.
He was ahead of my time.
He was mentioned quite frequently at some of the Yale practices before football games and things.
His name was brought up a lot.
And the trips that people took, were they called core trips?
Yes.
And did you all march down the main street?
And nobody ever threw things at you or you were treated nicely?
No, not that I recall.
We'd, well, I mean, the cadet corps would stack their rifles and then we'd guess, well, of course, we took our band instruments with us to play in the stadium.
But we never had any trouble the year.
The next year after I graduated, it was a very unfortunate situation there at Baylor, which I guess everybody knows about and finally forgot about, but that was a terrible accident there.
Did you ever have any amusing incident on any of the Corps trips?
Anything goofy happen?
No, not that I can recall, except some of the fellows would hide on the train going up to the court trip.
Somebody would help them hide underneath their legs or something, and the conductor wouldn't look too hard.
So they didn't have to buy a ticket?
They didn't have to buy a ticket, right.
They'd moot their way that way.
On those at a football game, were they called yell leaders then?
Yes.
And were the yells that we do now similar, the same yells?
No, they were, I think the words of some of them were the same, but they were done in a different way.
It was just a different cadence than they have today.
What did the yell leaders wear then?
As well as I recall, very similar to what they wear today, just white shirts and pants.
Okay.
And the Ross Volunteers, they were... They were there.
They were there, all white uniforms.
All white.
And that was a very prestigious... Yes.
Very great honor to be in RV.
Yes, it was.
Funny thing, there was, like I say, there was three of us living together, and two of us were...